My name is Ángel, and I'm a
Security Engineer at Google.
There were a number of things in
my life that led me to security.
One of them was definitely
curiosity when I was growing up.
My parents are accountants,
and so they had
pocket calculators and
mechanical pencils and pens.
And I was always
breaking them up and
taking pieces apart and
trying to figure
out how they work.
This led me to
technology in general,
and the same concept
applied again—just
trying to figure out how
things work and breaking them.
That's basically what
security's trying to do:
breaking things to
figure out whether or
not somebody else could
break them before you do.
I started as a network engineer.
This was setting up firewalls,
setting up switches and routers
for different companies.
I wanted to join cybersecurity
mostly because I felt
very motivated about the things
that were going on
in the industry.
Project Aurora was Google
getting hacked by
a foreign actor.
I was reading this
and I was thinking,
"I wish I could work with
the people that are working
on this on the front lines."
When I was starting to get into
cybersecurity and I wanted
to make a jump in my career,
what I wanted to learn,
where I needed to be.
One example is learning
automation through Python.
I took online classes,
I completed certifications—security
certifications,
very popular ones—and
then I just started to
incorporate some of these
aspects into my current job.
When I was moving from Mexico
to the U.S. to work here,
I had to learn how
to be flexible.
You have to learn new things
in order to advance your career.
Sometimes even you have to learn
new things just to stay
at the same spot you are.
In security, I think
in all of technology,
but especially in security,
you constantly have
to reinvent yourself,
keep learning how things work,
and keep learning how you
can help the industry.
One important skill throughout
my life and in my career
as a cybersecurity
professional is resiliency.
I learned a lot about resiliency
when I first moved here in
the U.S. and things didn't go
the way I expected them to,
and I have to keep trying
new things and
hope for the best.
And that is really no different
from what we do as
security professionals.
We do this on a
day-to-day basis.
We have to either figure out
ways to make things work,
we have to figure
out ways to make
projects function the
way we need them to,
or we have to figure out
ways to get past a problem.
We need more professionals in
cybersecurity with
different backgrounds,
and that means
different experiences,
different ways of seeing things,
different ways of approaching
and solving problems.
We need more people like
you in this industry.